![Atomic Habits](images/atomic-habits.jpeg)

# What is atomic habit?

We can create/remove a habit by first break it down to the smallest analyzable
units. From there we can improve each units to achieve overall improvement.

# Levels that changes can take place:

## Outcome

This is the behaviors/actions that we want to occur. This is the lowest level of
changes. If we focus on this level, there is a lot of mental energy that is
needed.

This is the "what".

## System

This is the way we go about achieving the outcome/actions. The system allows us
to produce the result in a predictable manner. Once we get a system in place,
little mental energy is needed to keep it running/producing the desirable
actions.

This is the "how".

## Identity

This is the person we see ourselves to be. Are we the type of person who runs,
(runner), works out (athlete), plays musical instruments (musician), or draws
(artist)? This is the highest level of change that we can achieve which will
cascade down and produces that system/outcome changes.

This is the "who".

# The four stages of habit

## Cue

This is what signals the habit. For good habits, make this obvious. For bad
habits, make this invisible.

## Craving

This is why we want to do it. For good habits, make this attractive. For bad
habits, make this unattractive.

## Response 

We perform the habit here. For good habits, make this easy. For bad habits, make
this difficult.

## Result

This is the satisfaction we have after performing the action. For good habits,
make this satisfying. For bad habits, make this unsatisfying.

# The four rules of habit changing

## Make it obvious (good habits) / invisible (bad habits)

The cue is usually visual, so if we can't see it, our craving won't be
trigger. There are ways to help with forming new habits. They are:

### Intention Implementation

To make sure we will start doing something, we can make it as explicit and
detailed as possible. For example, we can declare the time and place that we
will do something, like "at 3 PM I will workout at the gym". Similarly, we can
select an event as a trigger, as in "after I make my tea, I will meditate".

### Habit Stacking

This method is effective as we can "chain" your existing habits with new ones
to make them stick. For example, I brush my teeth everyday, so I can chain
another habit, such as wipe out the counter, right after. That way, one existing
habit can be the trigger of a new one.

### For habits, make it invisible

Most of our sensing information comes in as visual, so visual cues are powerful
that can trigger our craving without us evening knowing. To stop bad habits, we
need to determine their cues and make them invisible. Out of sight, out of mind.

### Environmental Architecture

One of the stickiest cues have to do with places and objects that associated
with the habits. For example, if we play video games and watch TV on the couch,
the couch will be the cue that is associated with playing video games and
watching TV. It will take a lot more mental energy to read on the couch.
Therefore, it's best to dedicate one activity per zone, so our mind can have an
easier time forming/maintaining the habit in that environment. 

## Make it attractive (good habits) / unattractive (bad habits)

### Temptation bundling

To start a new habit, we can bundle it with another attractive habits that we're
already doing. For example, we always brush our teeth anyways, so we could
bundle that with wiping off the counter or re-organizing the bottles/lotions. We
could bundle cleaning up the toilet with showering, as we might get dirty wiping
wiping the toilet anyways.

I personally use this technique to write more. Since I like to play League, and
sometimes I would mindlessly pay many games in a row. I bundle a habit of
"reviewing an article or a book chapter" with after each game. So now, whenever
I am done with a game (around 20-30'), I would spend the next 30' reviewing and
writing. This has been working well for me so far. Writing is actually fun, so
when I start typing, I usually can keep going without much motivation to do so.

## Make it easy (good habits) / difficult (bad habits)

### Environment Priming

We can make the habit easy by preparing out environment for the habit to occur.
For example, we can set up the room in a way that makes it easier for us to read
and difficult to watch TV. Also, whenever we're done with an activity, we can
reset the environment to make it easier for the activity to happen again in the
future. You would 'reset' the room.

### Commitment Device

Ulysses Pact (contract) is the story about a ship captain who wanted to hear the
sirens' songs, so he asked to be tied to the hull while the rest of the crew
had wax in their ears. That way, when the ship sailed by the sirens, Ulysses
could hear the songs without being able to steer the ship toward the rocks.

By limiting your future choices, you can make the habits very difficult/almost
impossible. The idea is to add as many steps in between us and the bad habit as
possible. For example, if we want to stop checking our phones for whatever
reasons, we can leave it in another room. If we want to not watch TV mindlessly,
we can unplug the TV, remove the batteries out of the remote, or put the TV away
in the closet after each use. If the obstacle is big enough, we will need extra
effort to perform the bad habits, which make them less likely to happen.
