![How to Train Your
Mind](images/How-to-train-your-mind.jpg)

# The Cross Section Between Productivity and Meditation

In this book, Chris talked about meditation and his journey of discovering
productivity. He started out with a story of a monk in a cafe. It goes something
like this.

The author was sitting in a cafe studying and reading some books when a monk
came in and ordered a tea. The monk then proceeded to enjoy his tea in a slow
and calm manner, without doing anything else. This went against everything known
about productivity. Instead of reading books or socializing, the monk was doing
absolutely nothing except drinking his tea. Fast forward to now, Chris
identified himself more with the monk than with his former younger self. The
monk was doing something that would help boost his productivity and focus more
than staying busy and engaged could ever offered.

We can find out along with this journey.

## How to measure the ROI from meditation

When we talk about productivity, we often think about the quantity of work we
produce. This is easier to do when it comes to manufacture. If we can make more
then we are more productive.

However, many of us are knowledge workers so it is more difficult to measure our
productivity because we don't actually manufacture concrete materials. This goes
to engineers, doctors, legals, researchers, and many others. For this, we will
go with the definition of "more focused time = more productivity". Meditation
helps us with that, as it gives us more focus back to the things that matter the
most.

As a software engineers, there was a story that Microsoft wanted to measure
engineers' productivity by measuring lines of code that they wrote. However,
when it comes building software, the less code you write to achieve the same
functionalities, the better. Measuring lines of code actually encouraged
engineers to write lengthy sloppy code. There was a famous anecdote that a
well-respected engineer submitted a report of "-1000 lines of code" as a result
of a big refactor where he rewrote the program (which the program even ran
faster afterward).

## 3 kinds of distraction we may experience during meditation

### Perceptions

This is physical sensations, like sight, sound, body sensations. We may not
notice any of these when our minds are busy, but they will surface once our
minds are quiet.

### Feelings/Emotions

We may feel a variety of feelings and emotions that we don't even notice they're
there. They could be feelings we've ignored or pushed down or away for so long
that finally surface. They could be emotions that linger from things happen
earlier or long ago.

### Thoughts

Our minds will wander with a lot of thoughts, such as worries, doubts, regrets,
or imagine scenarios that may or may not happen. This is the majority of
distractions that we will want to observe and let go.

# Side notes

Meditation, for me, is a way to quite my mind. It's also a way to train my brain
to stay on boring tasks for longer period of time. Many things our brains need
to process tend to be boring, such as reading, planning, writing, of focusing on
anything for an extend period of time. If we can just focus on our breath, which
is extremely boring, we can definitely master focusing on other things that are
less boring.

Meditation also forces me to be in the present. After all, we can only deal with
what's in front of us, one thing at a time. If we can focus on doing just that,
we will be a lot happier and feeling a lot more accomplished than doing and
worrying about many things all at the same time.

Being in the present can make us happier, as it allows us to enjoy our life more
purposefully. I will do just that.
