![Measure What Matters](images/Measure\ What\ Matters.jpg)

# OKRs

## Objectives and Key Results

Objectives should be ambitious, inspirational, directional, and aligned with
company's goals and objectives.

Key Results should be concrete, measurable, achievable, and quantifiable.

OKRs need to be formed bottom-up for it to work. OKRs can be set by different
levels of management in the company, organization, and individual. Everyone and
every team and every department can have OKRs and they should be shared publicly
for everyone else to see.

## Who Should Have OKRs?

Everyone, especially executive-level teams, should have public OKRs. This is to
ensure buy-in from everyone. The employees will look to their managers to see
how OKRs are set. 

## How long OKRS should be?

No longer than 3 months, aka quarterly. Longer than that and we will get
distracted.

## How many key results should an objective have?

From 3 to 5, and no more than 5. The point of have __key__ results is that so we
can have focus. If we focus on everything, we would then focus on nothing.

# Superpowers of OKRs

## Focus and Commit to Priorities

With well-defined and publicly visible OKRs, everyone can have a sense of focus
and commitment, from leaders to front-line employees. When we know what our
bosses deem important, we have a better idea where to focus and commit our time.

## Align and Connect for Teamwork

Once we know what other teammates/teams are focusing on, we can judge and align
ourselves with the organization's objectives. Who wants to duplicate work or
fails to meet others' expectation because we didn't know about it? OKRs help us
avoid the implicit dependencies.

### Power of Alignment

How do we know that everyone in the company is working toward the same goals?
Not duplicating work? By having OKRs and having them visible publicly. The
accountability of having publicly visible OKRs will enable everyone to know what
everyone else is working on and where their focuses are. This will help realign
the purpose of the company, orgs, teams, and individuals. 

## Track for Accountability

Once we commit our OKRs in public, we are more likely to commit to delivering
them. It also clarifies what we try to accomplish and therefore it will be
easier to judge whether we deliver on our goals/promises. It is as important
that we hold ourselves accountable to our words as to other people.

## Stretch for Amazing

We always want to push ourselves and expand our limits. OKRs allow us to see
where our comfort zones are and confront them. We don't want to set completely
unrealistic goals, but we don't want to take it easy either. To grow is to be
uncomfortable, so having stretch goals is essential to our own professional and
organizational growth.

# OKRs and Performance Review

Another way to apply OKRs to annual performance review is to replace it. To
enhance the effect of OKRs, we use Conversation, Feedback, and Recognition (CFR)
to continuously help employees get better. This takes place as 1-1s with direct
reports on a weekly basis.
